The following is a transcript of a cooking lesson. The chef comments on the pupil's cooking itself and the narrator explains what the expert chef means.

Chef: Let's start.
Narrator: The chef is about to start the lesson.
Chef: Hi, Flavia. It's Tijuana.
Narrator: The chef is talking to the pupil, Flavia.
Chef: I hope you're well and thank you so much for sending over your scrambled egg video. Looks really great and well done for really thinking about the equipment and utensils that you wanted to use as well that that was really good.
Narrator: The chef is impressed by how well the pupil cooked the eggs and is grateful that they took the time to think about the equipment they needed.
Chef: Um, the texture of your final dish is the thing that it was kind of an area of improvement, for you didn't have that creamy, glossy texture that you wanted. So we will look at that for me.
Narrator: The chef thinks that the pupil could improve the texture of their dish.
Chef: Scrambled eggs, Actually, my favourite type of eggs. Um, I love that they are creamy.
Narrator: The chef likes scrambled eggs because they are creamy.
Chef: I love that they taste rich and it almost quite indulgent, aren't they? And with such minimal ingredients, they taste amazing. So if we were thinking about the perfect scrambled egg, we want richness from the yolk.
Narrator: The chef explains what they think makes a good scrambled egg. They mention that the eggs should be creamy and rich, with minimal ingredients.
Chef: That's our taste. We want the appearance to be quite glossy and also very yellow.
Narrator: The chef wants the eggs to be creamy, rich, and have a glossy appearance.
Chef: We don't want any grey or whiteness, Tuaregs. We want that silky and soft texture, and they need to be just set.
Narrator: The chef wants the eggs to be creamy, rich, and have a glossy appearance with a silky and soft texture.
Chef: Um, and if we were thinking about the smell of scrambled eggs, obviously they're going to smell of eggs. So for our coaching today, we're really going to focus on timing and heat control.
Narrator: The chef explains that they will focus on timing and heat control for the lesson.
Chef: That's going to give you that perfect texture. Before we get into that, I'd really love for you to try to use just a knob of butter instead of oil.
Narrator: The chef recommends that the pupil try cooking the eggs with butter instead of oil.
Chef: Oil is going to heat up and fry the ingredient, and butter is going to be better, in fact, to use for this recipe. Um, okay, let's have a little look at your video here.
Narrator: The chef looks at the pupil's video.
Chef: So one thing to remember is eggs cook very easily with little heat. The longer you cook the eggs or heat the eggs, then the more water is going to come out and evaporate.
Narrator: The chef explains that the eggs cook easily with little heat and that the longer they are cooked, the more water will evaporate.
Chef: And that's going to give you that fluffy consistency that we don't want in scrambled eggs. So a low heat is very important.
Narrator: The chef emphasises the importance of using low heat when cooking scrambled eggs. Otherwise they get fluffy, which we don't want.
Chef: The other thing that is going to get your right, um, texture is thinking about your timing. You'll notice that when your eggs come off the heat, they continue to cook, so getting the timing right is really important.
Narrator: The chef emphasises the importance of timing when cooking scrambled eggs.
Chef: When we look at your video here, um, that's just with to the next bit. Mm.
Narrator: The chef is not impressed with the pupil's cooking and is going to critique it.
Chef: So about this point, you can see there's a little bit of running this still in your eggs. That is the point when you can be confident and take it off the heat because they're going to continue to cook.
Narrator: The chef explains that the eggs are done when they start to run and that it is okay to take them off the heat at that point.
Chef: When we look at yours here, you're still cooking, and it's quite dry already. So think about your timing and trying to get them off the heat just a little bit sooner when there's still a little bit runny is honestly going to make all the difference.
Narrator: The chef critiques the pupil's eggs and explains that they should take them off the heat a little bit sooner so that they are still a little bit runny.
Chef: So have a go with that. This next time really think about your heat control.
Narrator: The chef encourages the pupil to try again and to think about their heat control.
Chef: Low heat. Be patient and timing.
Narrator: The chef summarises what they have said.
Chef: Remember to take it off the heat just a little bit earlier than you actually think. And, yeah, I think once you've done that you'll be You'll be pretty good and I hope you enjoy it.
Narrator: The chef thinks that the pupil will be able to cook scrambled eggs well once they remember to take them off the heat a little bit earlier than they think.
Chef: Look forward to seeing your next video and I will speak to you soon. Bye.
Narrator: The chef encourages the pupil to keep cooking and send in more videos.

After the lesson is over, the pupil gets a questionnaire about the lesson. These are the questions:
1. What did you cook today?
2. How did the chef describe the ideal version of the dish?
3. What was exceptional about your result?
4. Did you have any moments of doubt?
5. What aspect of the dish did the chef focus the lesson on?
6. What useful knowledge did you gain?
7. Can you explain what you have learned in terms of the science of cooking?
8. How can this knowledge help your dish?
9. How can it go wrong?

And here are the pupil's answers:
1. I cooked scrambled eggs according to the chef's instructions.
2. The chef described the ideal version of the dish as creamy, rich, and with a glossy appearance.
3. My result was close to the ideal, but my eggs were a little dry.
4. I did not have any moments of doubt.
5. The chef focused the lesson on timing and heat control.
6. I learned how to cook scrambled eggs using low heat and how to time them properly.
7. I can explain what I have learned in terms of the science of cooking. Eggs cook easily with low heat, and the longer they are cooked, the more water will evaporate, which can give them a fluffy consistency.
8. This knowledge can help me cook scrambled eggs that are closer to the ideal.
9. If cooked for too long or at too high a heat, scrambled eggs can become dry and fluffy.
