The following is a transcript of a cooking lesson. The chef comments on the pupil's cooking itself and the narrator explains what the expert chef means.

Chef: The pupil just finished cooking, so let's see how did it go.
Narrator: The chef is about to start the lesson.
Chef: Hi Richard, Ross here, thank you very much for your first video.
Narrator: Chef Ross is talking to Richard, one of his pupils.
Chef: I think you did a great job following the recipe that you had, the rich coloured one, so yeah very well done and I think you’re rightly happy with the outcome.
Narrator: Ross is impressed with Richard's cooking and tells him so.
Chef: You know your final comment in the second video.
Narrator: Ross is referring to the comment Richard made near the end of his second cooking video, where Richard said he was "quite happy" with the result.
Chef: You didn’t really have too many moments of doubt, but you did mention about the saltiness, so I think kind of look at what’s giving you that saltiness and can you tone it down or get rid of it.
Narrator: Ross offers some constructive criticism to Richard on how to improve his cooking.
Chef: Remember with salt you can always add, but you can’t take away.
Narrator: Ross reminds Richard that with salt, it's easier to add more than to take it away.
Chef: That’s something you can tweak.
Narrator: Ross is suggesting that Richard tweak his recipe to make it less salty.
Chef: I would like us to focus on the lamb, because that is the main part of a lamb navarin.
Narrator: Chef Ross moves on to talk about the lamb in Richard's recipe.
Chef: So on that my, sort of why I love about this dish is a classic addition, it’s a light, more summery stew rather than a dark rich stew.
Narrator: Ross highlights the appeal of Richard's lamb navarin - its lightness.
Chef: So that’s what I really like about it, it’s more delicate and it’s got a bit of finesse to it.
Narrator: Ross likes the delicate flavour and finesse of Richard's lamb navarin.
Chef: The dish standard for taste - I’m looking for something that is rich, in appearance it should have some brightness on the vegetables and then not a beige kind of food.
Narrator: Ross is looking for a dish that is rich in appearance, with bright vegetables.
Chef: Texturally most important I would say is the tenderness lamb and the sauce should have a coating consistency, not watery and the smell should have just a lovely kind of lamb and nice kind of fragrant savoury flavour, eh, smell, sorry.
Narrator: Ross looks for a dish that is rich in appearance, with bright vegetables. He also describes the textures and flavours that he is looking for in a good lamb navarin.
Chef: One thing I really wanna focus on as a I said is the cooking of the lamb, ehm, for this one.
Narrator: Ross focuses on the cooking of the lamb in Richard's recipe.
Chef: To go through it two things that are really gonna give us a great lamb are the caramelising, creating the maillard reaction, which is when the proteins on the outside lamb caramelise and give us colour, which gives us the identity of meat, in this case lamb.
Narrator: Ross explains the maillard reaction, which is when the proteins on the outside of the meat caramelise and give it its colour.
Chef: And the second element is the braising element which then creates a nice tenderness to it.
Narrator: Ross explains the braising element, which creates a nice tenderness to the lamb.
Chef: So, thinking about the first point that I made was the colour, so here you have mentioned kind of boiling away, I think in your video, that’s a key one there.
Narrator: Ross is referring to when Richard said he boiled the lamb too much, which caused it to lose its colour.
Chef: So we should be frying, doing whatever we need, maybe a frying pan or something like that to get a really hight temperature and to sear in the moisture within that lamb, so we’re using a brazing type of lamb from the leg or something, less tender.
Narrator: Ross suggests that Richard use a frying pan to get a high temperature and sear in the moisture within the lamb.
Chef: So we braise with less tender, less premium secondary cuts we use.
Narrator: Ross explains that braising with a less tender cut of meat will still produce good results.
Chef: So they’re less tender, so we need to work harder to make them deliverable.
Narrator: Ross explains that because the lamb is less tender, they need to work harder to make it more palatable.
Chef: So we need to get our caramelisation very high temp and get really nice colour.
Narrator: Ross emphasises the importance of getting a high temperature to create a good caramelisation.
Chef: Seal in the juice and then, at this point we braise and that’s how we create our tenderness.
Narrator: Ross explains the process of searing in the juices and then braising the lamb to create tenderness.
Chef: So if we cook too high, if we’re boiling, we’re gonna toughen that meat up and it’s gonna tense right up, so we need a nice just below simmering point to then, just to cook it low and slow.
Narrator: Ross explains that if they cook the lamb too high, it will become tough and tense.
Chef: I’m sure you’ve heard the term before.
Narrator: Ross is referring to the term "low and slow", which is often used when cooking meat.
Chef: So once we’ve got that initial heat in, bring it back to gentle simmer, turn the heat down and braise.
Narrator: Ross explains that after they've seared in the juices, they need to turn the heat down and braise the lamb.
Chef: We don’t wanna create something that is boiling away, tensing our meat.
Narrator: Ross explains that they don't want the lamb to become tough by boiling it.
Chef: Yeah, those are the main focus, we wanna sear at a high temperature to create a lovely caramelised texture, eh crust, and then braising just below simmering point, to give us nice tender lamb.
Narrator: Ross highlights the key points to creating a good lamb navarin - searing in the juices, braising at a low temperature, and creating a caramelised texture.
Chef: Ok, so let’s have a real focus on that lamb and just stop, when you get that lovely ehm consistency on the lamb.
Narrator: Ross reminds Richard to focus on the lamb and to stop cooking it when it reaches a desirable consistency.
Chef: Thank you, bye.

After the lesson is over, the pupil gets a questionnaire about the lesson. These are the questions:
1. What did you cook today?
2. How did the chef describe the ideal version of the dish?
3. What was exceptional about your result?
4. Did you have any moments of doubt?
5. What aspect of the dish did the chef focus the lesson on?
6. What useful knowledge did you gain?
7. Did the chef explain how that process works from first principles?

And here are the pupil's answers:
1. I cooked a lamb navarin.
2. The chef described the ideal version of the dish as being rich in appearance, with bright vegetables.
3. My result was exceptional because the lamb was cooked well and the vegetables were very colourful.
4. I had moments of doubt when I added too much salt to the dish.
5. The chef focused the lesson on the cooking of the lamb.
6. I learnt that it is important to get a high temperature to create a good caramelisation, and that braising with a less tender cut of meat will still produce good results.
7. The chef explained how the process of searing in the juices and then braising the lamb creates tenderness.

###

The following is a transcript of a cooking lesson. The chef talks to the pupil. The narrator summarizes for the viewers what the chef says.

Chef: Let's start.
Narrator: The chef is about to start the lesson.
Chef: Hi Aki, thanks for your video. Your main goal is to achieve Paella Valenciana that you remember you had like with full of flavour and the rice nice and fluffy and so, let's see if we can get there.
Narrator: The chef is talking to Aki. The chef's goal is to help Aki create a Paella Valenciana that is flavorful and has fluffy rice.
Chef: Ok. So, you say that the rice this time for the chicken this time goes much nicer and with a lot of moisture.
Narrator: The chef agrees with Aki that the rice turned out nicer this time and that it had a lot of moisture.
Chef: The chicken looks great and nice color, nice color and looks good. I think you got it, the chicken and the beans and all this, you got it right.
Narrator: The chef is impressed with the chicken, beans, and other ingredients in the dish and believes Aki has succeeded.
Chef: So, just keep doing this. With the tomato... if when you go to buy to the veg guy or the shop, local shop or whatever, when you see the uglies almost gone tomato this ones will have like full of flavour.
Narrator: The chef advises Aki to buy tomatoes that are almost gone because they will have more flavor.
Chef: So more ugly and almost gone, the better flavour it will have. You don't put in a salad, you're grating it, so doesn't matter if looks ugly.
Narrator: The chef tells Aki that it doesn't matter if the tomatoes are ugly because they will be grated.
Chef: I mean, for the paella the biggest challenge is to cook the rice right. So good choice that you put chicken broth so all the paella will have a lot of flavour.
Narrator: The chef is impressed that Aki put chicken broth in the dish and believes it will add flavor.
Chef: If you add water you have to do the stock in the pan a la minute, it's a good choice to have it done before. Ok.
Narrator: The chef tells Aki that if he had added water, he would have had to make the stock in the pan right before adding the rice.
Chef: The rice. The biggest problem is the rice.
Narrator: The chef is concerned about the rice.
Chef: The rice you say that you're using arborio rice. This type of rice is used normally for rice pudding and risotto, because has a lot of a starch and helps for the technique called liaison to thicken a sauce in this case using the starch of the rice.
Narrator: The chef tells Aki that the arborio rice he is using is usually used for rice pudding and risotto because it has a lot of starch. This starch will help thicken the sauce.
Chef: If you can't find bomba rice I think you have to think to take in all the starch out from the rice so, just think how you can take all the starch before you put in the pan. Each type of rice has different measures for the liquid, some of them takes one part of rice, one part of liquid.
Narrator: The chef tells Aki that if he can't find bomba rice, he will need to take the starch out of the rice before cooking it. Different types of rice have different measures for the liquid.
Chef: Some of them one part of rice, two parts of liquid. Some of theme even three parts of, three and a half parts of liquid so just think how you can, you can find out which type of rice you are using and how much water that, how much water you have to put inside.
Narrator: The chef tells Aki that he needs to think about how much water he needs to put in the rice depending on the type of rice he is using.
Chef: The pan, the pan you are using, the pan you are using, an electric pan that you are using just keep bear mind that it's quite thick, so the temperature changes will take longer because it will keep longer the heat. To do the paellas normally the pans are very thin metal ones so when you put the heat high it goes quick and when you put the heat down the temperature will come, will go down quicker than if the pan is thick that will keep the heat for longer.
Narrator: The chef tells Aki that because his pan is thick, the temperature changes will take longer. Thin metal pans are better for making paellas because when the heat is high, the temperature changes quickly. When the heat is low, the temperature changes quickly.
Chef: And, for the socarrat when you put at the end the heat there's a thing that the paella has to have still a little bit of moisture or a little bit of stock inside, so finished absorbing all the stock and is when will start like toasting the rice from the bottom. In Valencia and Alicante normally the people always rest the paella so normally they put a little bit of tinfoil inside and you rest a little bit so all the grains can absorb all the flavours that are in the pan so think about resting it a little bit and just cover it with something.
Narrator: The chef tells Aki that when he puts the heat on the paella at the end, it needs to have a little bit of moisture or stock inside. The rice will start toasting from the bottom. In Valencia and Alicante, people usually rest the paella so the grains can absorb all the flavors from the pan.
Chef: So. Good job today and see you next time.

After the lesson is over, the pupil gets a questionnaire about the lesson. These are the questions:
1. What did you cook today?
2. How did the chef describe the ideal version of the dish?
3. What was exceptional about your result?
4. Did you have any moments of doubt?
5. What aspect of the dish did the chef focus the lesson on?
6. What useful knowledge did you gain?
7. Did the chef explain how that process works from first principles?

And here are the pupil's answers:
1. Paella Valenciana
2. The chef described the ideal version of the dish as flavorful and with fluffy rice.
3. My result was exceptional because the chicken and rice turned out well.
4. I did not have any moments of doubt.
5. The chef focused the lesson on how to cook the rice correctly.
6. I learned how to take the starch out of rice before cooking it and how to measure the liquid for different types of rice.
7. The chef explained how the process works from first principles.

###

The following is a transcript of a cooking lesson. The chef comments on the pupil's cooking itself and the narrator explains what the expert chef means.

Chef: The pupil just finished cooking, so let's see how did it go.
Narrator: The chef is about to start the lesson.
Chef: Hi Liz, Ross here, thank you very much for your video, and just wanted to say that it’s a great start.
Narrator: The chef Ross compliments Liz on her video and mentions that it is a good start.
Chef: You should be very happy if that a first one that you’ve made for a long time.
Narrator: Ross says that Liz should be happy with the result, as it is a good effort for someone who hasn't cooked for a long time.
Chef: I just wanted to go through omelette.
Narrator: Ross begins to talk about the omelette dish.
Chef: For me it’s a very simple and skillful dish.
Narrator: Ross believes that omelette is a simple but skillful dish.
Chef: It’s always one of the ones that seems simple, normally they’re the hardest to execute correctly.
Narrator: Ross mentions that omelette seems simple but is often difficult to make correctly.
Chef: I really love the versatility of the dish.
Narrator: Ross enjoys the versatility of omelette dishes.
Chef: You know you can garnish it with many many things, so something like an never get tired or boring.
Narrator: Ross explains that omelette dishes can be garnished with many different items, preventing them from becoming stale or boring.
Chef: It’s also quite luxurious I think if we get the textures and the whole dish right, it’s a very luxurious, enjoyable simple fast food.
Narrator: Ross believes that omelette dishes can be luxurious and enjoyable if the textures and overall dish are executed correctly.
Chef: So, in appearance we want your, your, omelette to be very light in color and there should be almost bulbous like lemon and texturally we should get a nice combination of two.
Narrator: Ross explains that the omelette should be light in color and have a bulbous like appearance, as well as have a good texture combination.
Chef: A nice skin like a film on the outside, and when we cut into it a lovely, light, fluffy, cooked, but still soft, almost runny centre.
Narrator: Ross describes the appearance, texture, and center of a good omelette.
Chef: Taste wise it should taste nice and fresh, we shouldn’t get any kind of egginess from being overcooked, or anything like that and then the smell is kind of irrelevant on this one.
Narrator: Ross explains that the omelette should taste fresh and not have an eggy taste from being overcooked.
Chef: So going into this I just wanted to focus on temperature control for this dish.
Narrator: Ross talks about the importance of temperature control when cooking an omelette.
Chef: So you said you cooked this a lot faster than you had in the past and that’s fine, but this really is a case of time versus temperature.
Narrator: Ross mentions that Liz cooked the omelette faster than she has in the past, but it is important to consider the time-temperature relationship.
Chef: So our goal is to distribute the heat throughout the enitre egg mix to give us a lovely kind of evenly cooked fluffy soft texture, was sitting long enough in the base of the pan to create that skin that we spoke about before we start doing our folds.
Narrator: Ross explains that the goal is to evenly cook the omelette, have a fluffy texture, and create a skin on the outside.
Chef: So, for this let’s just remember if our eggs go too fast far they go hard, rubbery, like the egg white of a fried egg and if they’re too soft, they’re gonna be raw and not enjoyable to eat.
Narrator: Ross explains that if the eggs cook too quickly, they will become hard, rubbery, and like an egg white, and if they cook too slowly, they will be raw and not enjoyable to eat.
Chef: Here you’re just trying to stir the egg quick enough so it doesn’t set, doesn’t curdle, doesn’t go hard and get that heat moving through the entire egg mix and then just leaving it long enough to form its skin and then we start the folds as you did here.
Narrator: Ross instructs Liz on how to cook an omelette correctly.
Chef: And, you’ve even managed to tug in the sides etc, there’s no colour on the egg.
Narrator: Ross compliments Liz on her omelette folds and mentions that there is no colour on the egg.
Chef: You even tugged in the sides and got your seam at the bottom.
Narrator: Ross compliments Liz on her omelette folds and mentions that she has a seam at the bottom.
Chef: There is a very, very attractive nice looking egg and I would like to bet that it was still lovely and soft on the inside, so let’s just focus on the temperature, distributing the temperature all the way through the egg evenly and that moment when to stop allow your skin to form and than start your folds..
Narrator: Ross provides some concluding remarks on how to cook an omelette correctly.

After the lesson is over, the pupil gets a questionnaire about the lesson. These are the questions:
1. What did you cook today?
2. How did the chef describe the ideal version of the dish?
3. What was exceptional about your result?
4. Did you have any moments of doubt?
5. What aspect of the dish did the chef focus the lesson on?
6. What useful knowledge did you gain?
7. Did the chef explain how that process works from first principles?

1. I cooked an omelette today.
2. The chef described the ideal version of the dish as being light in color, with a bulbous like lemon, and a nice skin like a film on the outside.
3. My result was exceptional because the egg was light in color and there was almost a bulbous like lemon.
4. I did not have any moments of doubt.
5. The chef focused the lesson on temperature control for the dish.
6. I learned that it is important to distribute the heat throughout the enitre egg mix to give us a lovely kind of evenly cooked fluffy soft texture.
7. The chef explained how that process works from first principles.

###

The following is a transcript of a cooking lesson. The chef comments on the pupil's cooking itself and the narrator explains what the expert chef means.

Chef: Let's start.
Narrator: The chef is about to start the lesson.
Chef: Hi, Flavia. It's Tijuana.
Narrator: The chef is talking to the pupil, Flavia.
Chef: I hope you're well and thank you so much for sending over your scrambled egg video. Looks really great and well done for really thinking about the equipment and utensils that you wanted to use as well that that was really good.
Narrator: The chef is impressed by how well the pupil cooked the eggs and is grateful that they took the time to think about the equipment they needed.
Chef: Um, the texture of your final dish is the thing that it was kind of an area of improvement, for you didn't have that creamy, glossy texture that you wanted. So we will look at that for me.
Narrator: The chef thinks that the pupil could improve the texture of their dish.
Chef: Scrambled eggs, Actually, my favourite type of eggs. Um, I love that they are creamy.
Narrator: The chef likes scrambled eggs because they are creamy.
Chef: I love that they taste rich and it almost quite indulgent, aren't they? And with such minimal ingredients, they taste amazing. So if we were thinking about the perfect scrambled egg, we want richness from the yolk.
Narrator: The chef explains what they think makes a good scrambled egg. They mention that the eggs should be creamy and rich, with minimal ingredients.
Chef: That's our taste. We want the appearance to be quite glossy and also very yellow.
Narrator: The chef wants the eggs to be creamy, rich, and have a glossy appearance.
Chef: We don't want any grey or whiteness, Tuaregs. We want that silky and soft texture, and they need to be just set.
Narrator: The chef wants the eggs to be creamy, rich, and have a glossy appearance with a silky and soft texture.
Chef: Um, and if we were thinking about the smell of scrambled eggs, obviously they're going to smell of eggs. So for our coaching today, we're really going to focus on timing and heat control.
Narrator: The chef explains that they will focus on timing and heat control for the lesson.
Chef: That's going to give you that perfect texture. Before we get into that, I'd really love for you to try to use just a knob of butter instead of oil.
Narrator: The chef recommends that the pupil try cooking the eggs with butter instead of oil.
Chef: Oil is going to heat up and fry the ingredient, and butter is going to be better, in fact, to use for this recipe. Um, okay, let's have a little look at your video here.
Narrator: The chef looks at the pupil's video.
Chef: So one thing to remember is eggs cook very easily with little heat. The longer you cook the eggs or heat the eggs, then the more water is going to come out and evaporate.
Narrator: The chef explains that the eggs cook easily with little heat and that the longer they are cooked, the more water will evaporate.
Chef: And that's going to give you that fluffy consistency that we don't want in scrambled eggs. So a low heat is very important.
Narrator: The chef emphasises the importance of using low heat when cooking scrambled eggs. Otherwise they get fluffy, which we don't want.
Chef: The other thing that is going to get your right, um, texture is thinking about your timing. You'll notice that when your eggs come off the heat, they continue to cook, so getting the timing right is really important.
Narrator: The chef emphasises the importance of timing when cooking scrambled eggs.
Chef: When we look at your video here, um, that's just with to the next bit. Mm.
Narrator: The chef is not impressed with the pupil's cooking and is going to critique it.
Chef: So about this point, you can see there's a little bit of running this still in your eggs. That is the point when you can be confident and take it off the heat because they're going to continue to cook.
Narrator: The chef explains that the eggs are done when they start to run and that it is okay to take them off the heat at that point.
Chef: When we look at yours here, you're still cooking, and it's quite dry already. So think about your timing and trying to get them off the heat just a little bit sooner when there's still a little bit runny is honestly going to make all the difference.
Narrator: The chef critiques the pupil's eggs and explains that they should take them off the heat a little bit sooner so that they are still a little bit runny.
Chef: So have a go with that. This next time really think about your heat control.
Narrator: The chef encourages the pupil to try again and to think about their heat control.
Chef: Low heat. Be patient and timing.
Narrator: The chef summarises what they have said.
Chef: Remember to take it off the heat just a little bit earlier than you actually think. And, yeah, I think once you've done that you'll be You'll be pretty good and I hope you enjoy it.
Narrator: The chef thinks that the pupil will be able to cook scrambled eggs well once they remember to take them off the heat a little bit earlier than they think.
Chef: Look forward to seeing your next video and I will speak to you soon. Bye.
Narrator: The chef encourages the pupil to keep cooking and send in more videos.

After the lesson is over, the pupil gets a questionnaire about the lesson. These are the questions:
1. What did you cook today?
2. How did the chef describe the ideal version of the dish?
3. What was exceptional about your result?
4. Did you have any moments of doubt?
5. What aspect of the dish did the chef focus the lesson on?
6. What useful knowledge did you gain?
7. Can you explain what you have learned in terms of the science of cooking?
8. How can this knowledge help your dish?
9. How can it go wrong?

And here are the pupil's answers:
1. I cooked scrambled eggs according to the chef's instructions.
2. The chef described the ideal version of the dish as creamy, rich, and with a glossy appearance.
3. My result was close to the ideal, but my eggs were a little dry.
4. I did not have any moments of doubt.
5. The chef focused the lesson on timing and heat control.
6. I learned how to cook scrambled eggs using low heat and how to time them properly.
7. I can explain what I have learned in terms of the science of cooking. Eggs cook easily with low heat, and the longer they are cooked, the more water will evaporate, which can give them a fluffy consistency.
8. This knowledge can help me cook scrambled eggs that are closer to the ideal.
9. If cooked for too long or at too high a heat, scrambled eggs can become dry and fluffy.
