The following is a transcript of a cooking lesson. The chef talks to the pupil. The narrator summarizes for the viewers what the chef says.

Chef: Let's start.
Narrator: The chef is about to start the lesson.
Chef: Hi Aki, thanks for your video. Your main goal is to achieve Paella Valenciana that you remember you had like with full of flavour and the rice nice and fluffy and so, let's see if we can get there.
Narrator: The chef is talking to Aki. The chef's goal is to help Aki create a Paella Valenciana that is flavorful and has fluffy rice.
Chef: Ok. So, you say that the rice this time for the chicken this time goes much nicer and with a lot of moisture.
Narrator: The chef agrees with Aki that the rice turned out nicer this time and that it had a lot of moisture.
Chef: The chicken looks great and nice color, nice color and looks good. I think you got it, the chicken and the beans and all this, you got it right.
Narrator: The chef is impressed with the chicken, beans, and other ingredients in the dish and believes Aki has succeeded.
Chef: So, just keep doing this. With the tomato... if when you go to buy to the veg guy or the shop, local shop or whatever, when you see the uglies almost gone tomato this ones will have like full of flavour.
Narrator: The chef advises Aki to buy tomatoes that are almost gone because they will have more flavor.
Chef: So more ugly and almost gone, the better flavour it will have. You don't put in a salad, you're grating it, so doesn't matter if looks ugly.
Narrator: The chef tells Aki that it doesn't matter if the tomatoes are ugly because they will be grated.
Chef: I mean, for the paella the biggest challenge is to cook the rice right. So good choice that you put chicken broth so all the paella will have a lot of flavour.
Narrator: The chef is impressed that Aki put chicken broth in the dish and believes it will add flavor.
Chef: If you add water you have to do the stock in the pan a la minute, it's a good choice to have it done before. Ok.
Narrator: The chef tells Aki that if he had added water, he would have had to make the stock in the pan right before adding the rice.
Chef: The rice. The biggest problem is the rice.
Narrator: The chef is concerned about the rice.
Chef: The rice you say that you're using arborio rice. This type of rice is used normally for rice pudding and risotto, because has a lot of a starch and helps for the technique called liaison to thicken a sauce in this case using the starch of the rice.
Narrator: The chef tells Aki that the arborio rice he is using is usually used for rice pudding and risotto because it has a lot of starch. This starch will help thicken the sauce.
Chef: If you can't find bomba rice I think you have to think to take in all the starch out from the rice so, just think how you can take all the starch before you put in the pan. Each type of rice has different measures for the liquid, some of them takes one part of rice, one part of liquid.
Narrator: The chef tells Aki that if he can't find bomba rice, he will need to take the starch out of the rice before cooking it. Different types of rice have different measures for the liquid.
Chef: Some of them one part of rice, two parts of liquid. Some of theme even three parts of, three and a half parts of liquid so just think how you can, you can find out which type of rice you are using and how much water that, how much water you have to put inside.
Narrator: The chef tells Aki that he needs to think about how much water he needs to put in the rice depending on the type of rice he is using.
Chef: The pan, the pan you are using, the pan you are using, an electric pan that you are using just keep bear mind that it's quite thick, so the temperature changes will take longer because it will keep longer the heat. To do the paellas normally the pans are very thin metal ones so when you put the heat high it goes quick and when you put the heat down the temperature will come, will go down quicker than if the pan is thick that will keep the heat for longer.
Narrator: The chef tells Aki that because his pan is thick, the temperature changes will take longer. Thin metal pans are better for making paellas because when the heat is high, the temperature changes quickly. When the heat is low, the temperature changes quickly.
Chef: And, for the socarrat when you put at the end the heat there's a thing that the paella has to have still a little bit of moisture or a little bit of stock inside, so finished absorbing all the stock and is when will start like toasting the rice from the bottom. In Valencia and Alicante normally the people always rest the paella so normally they put a little bit of tinfoil inside and you rest a little bit so all the grains can absorb all the flavours that are in the pan so think about resting it a little bit and just cover it with something.
Narrator: The chef tells Aki that when he puts the heat on the paella at the end, it needs to have a little bit of moisture or stock inside. The rice will start toasting from the bottom. In Valencia and Alicante, people usually rest the paella so the grains can absorb all the flavors from the pan.
Chef: So. Good job today and see you next time.

After the lesson is over, the pupil gets a questionnaire about the lesson. These are the questions:
1. What did you cook today?
2. How did the chef describe the ideal version of the dish?
3. What was exceptional about your result?
4. Did you have any moments of doubt?
5. What aspect of the dish did the chef focus the lesson on?
6. What useful knowledge did you gain?
7. Did the chef explain how that process works from first principles?

And here are the pupil's answers:
1. Paella Valenciana
2. The chef described the ideal version of the dish as flavorful and with fluffy rice.
3. My result was exceptional because the chicken and rice turned out well.
4. I did not have any moments of doubt.
5. The chef focused the lesson on how to cook the rice correctly.
6. I learned how to take the starch out of rice before cooking it and how to measure the liquid for different types of rice.
7. The chef explained how the process works from first principles.
