The following is a transcript of a cooking lesson. The chef comments on the pupil's cooking itself and the narrator explains what the expert chef means.

Chef: The pupil just finished cooking, so let's see how did it go.
Narrator: The chef is about to start the lesson.
Chef: Hi Richard, Ross here, thank you very much for your first video.
Narrator: Chef Ross is talking to Richard, one of the pupils.
Chef: I think you did a great job following the recipe that you had, the rich coloured one, so yeah very well done and I think you’re rightly happy with the outcome.
Narrator: Chef Ross is praising Richard for following the recipe correctly.
Chef: You know your final comment in the second video.
Narrator: Chef Ross is referring to Richard's comment in his second video, where he said he would have liked to have cooked the food for a bit longer.
Chef: You didn’t really have too many moments of doubt, but you did mention about the saltiness, so I think kind of look at what’s giving you that saltiness and can you tone it down or get rid of it.
Narrator: Chef Ross is giving Richard some advice on how to make his dish less salty.
Chef: Remember with salt you can always add, but you can’t take away.
Narrator: Chef Ross is reminding Richard that he can always add more salt if needed, but he can't take it away if it's too salty.
Chef: That’s something you can tweak.
Narrator: Chef Ross is advising Richard to tweak his dish by adding or removing salt if needed.
Chef: I would like us to focus on the lamb, because that is the main part of a lamb navarin.
Narrator: Chef Ross is talking about the lamb in Richard's dish.
Chef: So on that my, sort of why I love about this dish is a classic addition, it’s a light, more summery stew rather than a dark rich stew.
Narrator: Chef Ross is praising the light and summery flavour of Richard's lamb navarin.
Chef: So that’s what I really like about it, it’s more delicate and it’s got a bit of finesse to it.
Narrator: Chef Ross is praising the delicate and finesse flavour of Richard's lamb navarin.
Chef: The dish standard for taste - I’m looking for something that is rich, in appearance it should have some brightness on the vegetables and then not a beige kind of food.
Narrator: Chef Ross is looking for a dish that is rich in appearance, has brightness on the vegetables, and isn't beige.
Chef: Texturally most important I would say is the tenderness lamb and the sauce should have a coating consistency, not watery and the smell should have just a lovely kind of lamb and nice kind of fragrant savoury flavour, eh, smell, sorry.
Narrator: Chef Ross is looking for a dish that has a tender texture, a coating consistency, and a lovely lamb smell.
Chef: One thing I really wanna focus on as a I said is the cooking of the lamb, ehm, for this one.
Narrator: Chef Ross is focusing on the cooking of the lamb.
Chef: To go through it two things that are really gonna give us a great lamb are the caramelising, creating the maillard reaction, which is when the proteins on the outside lamb caramelise and give us colour, which gives us the identity of meat, in this case lamb.
Narrator: Chef Ross is explaining the maillard reaction, which is when the proteins on the outside of the lamb caramelise and give it colour.
Chef: And the second element is the braising element which then creates a nice tenderness to it.
Narrator: Chef Ross is explaining the braising element, which creates a nice tenderness to the lamb.
Chef: So, thinking about the first point that I made was the colour, so here you have mentioned kind of boiling away, I think in your video, that’s a key one there.
Narrator: Chef Ross is referring to Richard's comment in his first video, where he said he would have liked to have boiled the vegetables for a bit longer.
Chef: So we should be frying, doing whatever we need, maybe a frying pan or something like that to get a really hight temperature and to sear in the moisture within that lamb, so we’re using a brazing type of lamb from the leg or something, less tender.
Narrator: Chef Ross is advising Richard to fry the lamb in order to caramelise and create a nice colour.
Chef: So we braise with less tender, less premium secondary cuts we use.
Narrator: Chef Ross is explaining that a less tender cut of lamb can be used for braising.
Chef: So they’re less tender, so we need to work harder to make them deliverable.
Narrator: Chef Ross is explaining that a less tender cut of lamb needs to be worked harder in order to be cooked correctly.
Chef: So we need to get our caramelisation very high temp and get really nice colour.
Narrator: Chef Ross is advising Richard to get a high temperature when caramelising the lamb in order to get a nice colour.
Chef: Seal in the juice and then, at this point we braise and that’s how we create our tenderness.
Narrator: Chef Ross is explaining how braising creates tenderness in the lamb.
Chef: So if we cook too high, if we’re boiling, we’re gonna toughen that meat up and it’s gonna tense right up, so we need a nice just below simmering point to then, just to cook it low and slow.
Narrator: Chef Ross is explaining that if the lamb is boiled, it will toughen up and become less tender.
Chef: I’m sure you’ve heard the term before.
Narrator: Chef Ross is referring to the term 'low and slow'.
Chef: So once we’ve got that initial heat in, bring it back to gentle simmer, turn the heat down and braise.
Narrator: Chef Ross is explaining how to braise the lamb.
Chef: We don’t wanna create something that is boiling away, tensing our meat.
Narrator: Chef Ross is explaining that boiling the lamb will make it less tender.
Chef: Yeah, those are the main focus, we wanna sear at a high temperature to create a lovely caramelised texture, eh crust, and then braising just below simmering point, to give us nice tender lamb.
Narrator: Chef Ross is summarising the key points for cooking lamb.
Chef: Ok, so let’s have a real focus on that lamb and just stop, when you get that lovely ehm consistency on the lamb.
Narrator: Chef Ross is asking Richard to focus on the lamb and to stop cooking it when it has a lovely consistency.
Chef: Thank you, bye.
Narrator: Chef Ross is thanking Richard and ending the lesson.
Narrator: The lesson is over. Let's talk to the pupil now to find out what they learned.


Narrator: What dish have you made today?
Pupil: I made a lamb navarin.
Narrator: How did the chef describe their vision for the dish?
Pupil: The chef described their vision for the dish as a light, more summery stew rather than a dark rich stew.
Narrator: Did you have any moments of doubt?
Pupil: I wasn't sure if I put enough salt in it.
Narrator: What focus did the lesson have today?
Pupil: The focus of the lesson was on the cooking of the lamb.
Narrator: What was the key technique for that?
Pupil: The key technique was caramelising the lamb to create a nice colour.
Narrator: Did the chef talk mostly about that?
Pupil: The chef mostly talked about caramelising the lamb to create a nice colour.
Narrator: How do you get control there?
Pupil: The chef advised me to fry the lamb in order to caramelise and create a nice colour.
Narrator: What's the reasoning, or science behind it?
Pupil: The reasoning or science behind it is that the caramelisation will create a nice colour and add flavour to the lamb.
Narrator: When do you have to react?
Pupil: I have to react when I see the lamb has a nice colour.
Narrator: What happens when it goes wrong?
Pupil: If I don't get the lamb to a nice colour, it will be tough and not taste as good.
